This lab was painful, not due to the Netowrking itself, but troubleshooting Eve-NG and Linux nonsense. Network part was the significantly easier part. 

I spent a few hours researching a way that doesn't exist. I learned Cisco doesn't allow the deletion of subinterfaces, yet allows an unlimited creation of them. Also, only SOME specific network devices allows the deletion of subinterfaces, such as IOS XE, XR and NX-OS, however, not CVR1000v network devices. This seems to also be strongly complained about by engineers, yet Cisco has ignored them for 10 years, and will continue to do so for another 10.

Fortinet KVM needs to have a specific name to run on eve-ng "fortinet-", also the .qcow2 file needs to be called "virtoa.qcow2" rather than the original "fortios.qcow", or else eve-ng will not recognize it, and complain with the message "could not read the boot disk". Another few minutes of researching led me to find that Fortinet devices, even on VM, boot extremely fast, under a minute, other than if you use the 100F or 600E+ models. If it still takes time, then there is something wrong. After fixing the naming issue, it booted in 30 seconds with just 2 vCPU and 4GB RAM. The memory does not seem to be an issue in heavy load, but I didn't want to risk it, so I added 8GB RAM so I skip stopping the VM, then increasing it later on. After starting it, I know found out that the free image given by Fortinet is restricted to 1vCPU and 2GB RAM. How kind.

For some reason I still dont know, fortinet did not connect to the "internet", but my linux server did. I tried to connect the fortinet port5 to the ubuntu server nic, then another nic to the internet. I got an internet connection, but it did not recognize the second nic. I gave it a manual ip address with the gateway being the Fortinet port5 address. Still didnt work. I then removed the connection to the internet, trying to guess it was the second nic being the issue in this ubuntu server. I now not only got an icmp reply, but i also got managed to access the Fortinet webgui login to signin. I now noticed an issue. My version of ubntu was an end-of-service 21.0.4, which means I couldn't even update my packages with sudo apt update, incluind issues with not updating Firefox, as the webgui after signing-in caused a white-screen. My guess was a Java issue, however, I couldn't pinpoint it due to not being able to update. So i downloaded the 22.0.4 LTS, updated to 24.0.1 LTS, from Eve-ng, which was in service. This also updated Firefox from 74.x to 139.x. I could now update my packages, and the newer version of firefox accapted the Fortinet webui login with whatever the front-end language was used. The newer ubuntu version also seem to fix the "bug" or lack-of-feauture, of using multiple-nics at the same time, as now I can access the internet and use fortigate at the same time, using two nics at the same time. I could now move to enabling the "Evaluation license", which meant I lack a few feautues, but that did not matter for the lab. I need to connect the fortinet to the internet, as I noticed on the fortinet firewall it was giving me an error "Requestiong FortiCare Trial license, proxy:(null) dns resolve error". 

After tinkering with Fortinet, I gave up their terrible design, so I went and just used the CLI instead and ignored the WebUI even existed.